Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo and the various tutorial we combined two data sets using
a cross database join the first or I said came from an excel file.
The second one came from CCSB file and now we've got a new data set for the population column available
to us.
So let's go ahead and proceed back to our cluster analysis and refine it and see if this population
column can make a difference.
So there we go that's our cluster analysis which Richard duplicate this sheet.
And now we're going to see how we can refine this analysis.
Now all we need to do is we need to right click Klosters and select Edit clauses so we don't even have
to add this new column population in charge of isolation we don't need to actually see it for it to
be included in the cluster analysis.
Oh to do is drag population into the list of variables for all clusters.
Click here.
And as you can see right away now we have a different picture now based on these three variables.
If you think about it's like a three dimensional modeling exercise that's happening in the background
where Tablo is taking these three variables marking a spin around your population and it's looking at
those three variables.
It's understanding how to best group these observations into clusters based on their proximity.
And then is just translating the result into colors on our two dimensional chart so basically we could
keep putting in more variables in here.
Same would happen Tablo would group them in a multidimensional space of three or five dimensional ten
dimensional space.
So just basically performing some mathematical calculations to understand what's the best way to create
groups of proximity of these observations and then painting them for us here in colors on our two dimensional
dashboard resolution.
So it's just easier for us to assess.
So that's what's happening in the background.
And now let's have a look at that and the lyrics.
Now we can perform as you can see a very different picture.
Before we had two groups and these elements were part of this bottom group we're here now is Boerum
group is on its own.
Then you've got this yellow group which kind of overlaps of the blue.
So even though for us they overlap these two groups they overlap in some of the orange yellow dots are
above the blue and lose some of the blue are below the yellow inreality.
This is because we don't see that third variable the population and then we'll have a look at a couple
of examples just now of that.
So before we do that what we need to change is the actual representation of visualization So let's go
to shape and change this from a circle to a field a circle and let's increase the size.
Maybe something like that.
And now when collarless said some transparency.
So somewhere like that so we can actually better see what's going on.
And now let's take population and we'll just put it into detail so that it can.
It comes up when we look at the pop up.
So let's start off is this this bottom set of observations.
So here you'll see that population has about 100000 102 170000 hundred and eight hundred and six hundred
three thousand five hundred nine hundred 9000 so around those numbers have a look at these here.
Hundred twenty six thousand thirty two hundred forty seven hundred twenty eight hundred forty and so
on.
So in these or is it also population is higher.
Now let's look at the blue dots blue dots.
Population is 200 171 here 197 200 here 213.
So as you can see the population in the blue dots is even higher than orange and that is how they're
distinct So even though they're close here they're quite proximity high so they're close to each other.
But at the same time they differ in a variable there we don't see on this realisation which is population
and that is how Tablo has assessed that there is actually three groups here.
So the blue the yellow and the red and that is a great great step for us.
So first of all this the fact that this group is separate kind of confirms our thinking that population
does affect revenue so all of these cities they have a population of about 100 or so under a hundred
and ten thousand people and therefore maybe the marketing efforts are not yielding any additional results
whereas these cities they have greater populations and therefore the marketing efforts are actually
maybe there is a correlation.
That is why the marketing efforts are giving us results.
So now that we have these separate groups how do we enhance our analysis.
So yes that's a that's a great start.
But apart from especially seeing that the groups are different what are the differences in the trends.
And in order to look at the trends we're going to try and explain again and again we haven't spoken
about lines in this course this is a more advanced topic it's something for the advanced course and
tabel and if you want to learn more about trendlines you're definitely welcome to check on my advanced
course.
But we'll have a quick sneak peek into trendlines right now.
So all we need to do is take the trend line and just drag it onto the chart.
We're going to take oh we're going to lean a trend line so we can just drag on to chart it will still
create a linear trend line for us and what we can see here are the three trend lines for these three
clusters.
So what you can see for the red line for instance if you Hoeber over it you'll see that the revenue
so the former is at the very top it says that the revenue is zero point ninety four times marketing
spend plus sixteen thousand forty three.
So basically what we're interested in here is this first bit.
So the slope and here it's 94 0.19 for us.
What that means is that for every dollar of marketing spend their revenue goes up by 94 cents.
So that's even less than by $1.
So basically you're losing money.
This is it.
Don't forget that this is revenue this is not profit.
So basically a marketing spend is going to come out as an expense from revenue if we talk about financial
terms.
But the main point here is that this coefficient is less than one meaning that for every dollar that
you invest into marketing we're in this cluster you're only according to this model you're only getting
back what is it 90 What was it 94 cents of revenue whereas for the orange cluster you're getting back
seven dollars 32 cents for every dollar invested into marketing the revenue predicted revenue input
or increase in revenue Sandal's 32 for the blue cluster.
Every dollar spent on marketing increases our revenue by $3 and 17 cents.
So that is a very very powerful insight.
And I'll explain exactly why right now.
So the the this insight is so useful to us because let's have a look at these expansions that will have
been created.
So if I select new here first of all you can see that so many lines are being drawn right now.
And that is simply because tableaus recreating these trend lines for the highlighted features.
So to switch it off we'll just click on one of these trendlines will click EDID trend lines and at the
bottom while just uncheck Shorey Kalka line highlighted or selected data points click OK.
And now it won't recreate the trend lines for the highlighted data points.
So now from the dropdown just select new and there you can see our points so you can see that we have
one of the new stores was opened and it is in terms of proximity and similarity.
It is very similar to all these red ones that we already have.
So it's been operating for a bit where you know what's the marketing spend is what revenue it generates
and we can see that.
And based on population it kind of falls in this category.
So from that we can drive that there is a high likelihood that if we keep investing into marketing if
we add another thousand dollars or another thousand dollars then not much is going to change because
this trend line is predicting that per every dollar that you add into marketing for this cluster you're
only getting 94 cents of revenue and increase in revenue at the same time we've got 5 stores or five
cities were opened that are very similar to the blue cluster.
And for that are similar to the yellow cluster.
So the question is out of these 10 which ones would you recommend the CEO to invest money in marketing.
So that's that's the question to you maybe pose this video and think about us based on the analysis
that we've performed.
Which ones would you choose.
Obviously it's not the red one right.
Not the red one because it's in a very bad situation.
Would you choose the blue ones or would you choose the yellow ones let's say for example you can only
choose three cities which three cities would you choose would be orange ones would they be blue ones
and that's a wonderful attrition of the power of clustering and trend lines when you put them together.
So if we just forget about the Klosters or you and forget about just the trend lines.
Right.
So if you forget about the clusters to start with.
So let's say for instance this remove the trend line and so on are unclick trend line and then Leslee
of the cluster.
So just from here you would perhaps pick one two three.
The top three right because they are generating the most revenue.
These stores or you may say these three because they're generating a lot of revenue but at the same
time they're marking spent isn't that high.
Now if your return the clusters you would probably look at these and you'd say all right so the blue
Klosters obviously higher.
So I would still pick stories from more cities from the blue cluster but then if you return to trendlines
Now you can see that even though these are great cities great location.
So if ice like this again you'll see that these are great locations.
They're generating a lot of revenue at the same time.
The trend line is for costing that per every dollar that you add into marketing you're only getting
three dollars of revenue increase.
Whereas with the orange ones even though they're right now they're a bit lower than the blue ones.
They're kind of a lower revenue generating area.
At the same time the trend line what is it for is forecasting is that for every single dollar that you
invest into marketing you getting back seven dollars and 32 cents of revenue.
So obviously from this analysis it is pretty evident that the best stores are the cities out of these
halide wants to look at other orange ones.
So if you had to pick three stores or you had to prioritize them in a way that you invest your funds
into them then you would put the orange ones in the first place of course there's the four orange ones
if you have to pick three.
Then you have to do some additional analysis or the CEO might have some additional knowledge about it.
But basically all of these orange ones they're in a great position in terms of what the clusters are
telling us.
And in terms of what the trend lines are telling us.
So there we go this is a very powerful analysis that we can perform as you can see we find our clusters
using an external data set which we came up with using just domain knowledge and thinking about how
this company operates and based on this we can make a conclusion for analysis that the CRN stores the
stores that you would want to invest further in our stores in this orange cluster simply because the
return on investment will be higher so the increase in revenue per every dollar that we invest into
these stores into marketing in these stores is expected to be higher according to this model.
I hope you enjoy this material a very very powerful insights.
And I look forward to seeing next them.
Until then happy analyzing.